# Weeks 7 & 8 Regression
## Overlay
The essentials of overlay are well set out in this article in the _International Encyclopedia of Human Geography_:

+ Ahlqvist O. 2009. [Overlay (in GIS)](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-008044910-4.00487-9). In _International Encyclopedia of Human Geography_, ed. R Kitchin and N Thrift, 48–55. Oxford: Elsevier.

The early importance of overlay as a 'killer app' for GIS is discussed in

+ Steinitz C, P Parker and L Jordan. 1976. [Hand-drawn overlays: Their history and prospective uses](https://www.jstor.org/stable/44664237). _Landscape Architecture_ **September**,  444–455.

The raster-based approach which can is easily accomplished using 'raster calculator' type tools in GIS (simply calculations in _R_) is formally described (along with many other clever manipulations of raster data) in 

+ Tomlin CD. 2013. _GIS and Cartographic Modeling_. Redlands, Calif: Esri Press.

which is available in electronic format from the library (although you need to be on campus to access it). By the way, Dana Tomlin is apparently responsible for the terrible rhyme

> Yes raster is faster<br>
But raster is vaster<br>
And vector...<br>
Just seems more correcter

### From overlay to regression
The overall argument I make in lectures is based on Chapter 11 'Putting Maps Together—Map Overlay' (pages 315-340) of my book with Dave Unwin _Geographic Information Analysis_ which is available from the library at [this link](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/book/10.1002/9780470549094). The essence of the argument is set out in sections 11.3 to 11.6.

## Regression
There is a nice introduction to regression modelling in the book from which the Galapagos Islands example is drawn, Peter Rogerson's _Statistical Methods for Geography_, which is available in electronic form from the library. The key chapters are

+ [Introduction to regression analysis](https://methods.sagepub.com/book/statistical-methods-for-geography/n6.xml)
+ [More on regression](https://methods.sagepub.com/book/statistical-methods-for-geography/n7.xml)

These set out some of the 'nuts and bolts' of regression in more detail than have been covered in lectures if you'd like a better idea of _how the heck_ it works!

### Geographically weighted regression (GWR)
GWR is conceptually straightforward, but mathematically complex. The most accessible presentation of it is in Chapter 2 of 

+ Fotheringham AS, C Brunsdon and M Charlton. 2002. _Geographically Weighted Regression: The Analysis of Spatially Varying Relationships_. Chichester, England ; Hoboken, NJ, USA: Wiley.

This is available in the library, but hard copy only, unfortunately.

A relatively straightforward and concise presentation of the ideas is found in this article:

+ Páez A and DC Wheeler. 2009. [Geographically weighted regression](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-008044910-4.00447-8). In _International Encyclopedia of Human Geography_, ed. R Kitchin and N Thrift, 407–414. Oxford: Elsevier.







